feat(insights): asset module documentation (#1306)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/sdk/performance/modules/assets.mdx

---
title: 'Assets Module'
---

> The javascript SDK should automatically instrument most assets fetched by the application. This includes images, stylesheets, scripts, and other assets. But if you may wish to instrument assets manually.

Reviewer: `But if you may wish to instrument assets manually.` I think you missed some words in this sentence

| `resource.css`    | A Stylesheet was fetched by the browser |
| `resource.img`    | An Image was fetched by the browser     |

### Span Description

The description of an asset span should be the full URL of the asset, e.g., `https://cdn.com/main.hash123.js?q=11274713`.

### Span Data

| Data Key                               | Type   | Description                                                                      | Conditions                          |
| :------------------------------------- | :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| `http.response_content_length`         | int    | encoded size of the asset in `bytes` (what is sent over the network)             | required on all asset operations    |
| `http.decoded_response_content_length` | int    | the decoded size of the asset in `bytes`                                         | recommended on all asset operations |
| `http.response_transfer_size`          | int    | the size of the encoded asset plus the response headers in `bytes`               | recommended on all asset operations |

> | `resource.render_blocking_status`      | string | wether the resource blocks UI rendering, values are 'non-blocking' or 'blocking' | recommended on all asset operations |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resource.render_blocking_status`      | string | whether the resource blocks UI rendering, values are 'non-blocking' or 'blocking' | recommended on all asset operations |
```

---
title: 'Assets Module'
---

> The javascript SDK should automatically instrument most assets fetched by the application. This includes images, stylesheets, scripts, and other assets. But if you may wish to instrument assets manually.

Reviewer 2: This documentation is aimed at SDK developers, so you don't need to mention the "javascript SDK" specifically, nor talk about manual instrumentation, since this is a different usecase. On the flipside, you can (and should) be specific about what kinds of assets to instrument! e.g., this is a good time to point out that `link` (right?) elements are not supported and so on

Reviewer 2: Although to your point, it probably makes sense to explain that resources only make sense in a Browser context!

Author: Ohh, i actually didn't know this was for SDK developers, that makes a lot more sense!

## Span conventions

### Span Operations

| Span OP           | Description                             |
| :---------------- | :-------------------------------------- |
| `resource.script` | Javscript was fetched by the browser    |
| `resource.css`    | A Stylesheet was fetched by the browser |

> | `resource.img`    | An Image was fetched by the browser     |

Reviewer 2: You probably don't need the whole table, since the descriptions are all kind of the same. Instead, maybe you can explain the applicable resource types in the intro, and also immediately explain how to name the `op` field of the spans? Or something along those lines

Author: updated!

### Span Description

> The description of an asset span should be the full URL which is was fetched from, e.g. `https://cdn.com/main.hash123.js`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The description of an asset span should be the full URL of the asset, e.g., `https://cdn.com/main.hash123.js?q=11274713`.
```

Reviewer 2: The more specific the better!

> ### Span Data

Reviewer 2: This section should link to the "Span Data Conventions" section for resources. That way you don't have to re-do the table. You just need to explain which of those attribute are mandatory (all of them?)

Author: 🤔 There is no "resource" section in span data conventions. Resource spans contains some properties from the [browser section](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/performance/span-data-conventions/#browser) and some properties from the [ http section ](https://develop.sentry.dev/sdk/performance/span-data-conventions/#http)

| Data Key                               | Type   | Description                                                                      | Conditions                          |
| :------------------------------------- | :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------- |
| `http.response_content_length`         | int    | encoded size of the asset in `bytes` (what is sent over the network)             | required on all asset operations    |
| `http.decoded_response_content_length` | int    | the decoded size of the asset in `bytes`                                         | recommended on all asset operations |
| `http.response_transfer_size`          | int    | the size of the encoded asset plus the response headers in `bytes`               | recommended on all asset operations |
| `resource.render_blocking_status`      | string | wether the resource blocks UI rendering, values are 'non-blocking' or 'blocking' | recommended on all asset operations |

> ## Instrumentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Instrumentation Example
```

> Once an application fetches an asset, the SDK creates a new span based on the operation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SDK should create a span per asset fetched by the browser.
```

> **Example**
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
